# Comp_phylo
To find if we can detect a signature of interspecific competition on a phylogenetic trait data

The effects of interspecific interactions on trait evolution have only recently included in comparative phylogenetic models. It is still unclear whether such models can provide a unique signature of trait distributions at the tip of the phylogeny which is different from previously well-tested trait evolution models such as Ornstein-Uhlenbeck or AC-DC models. Additionally, the efficacy of the models with interspecific interactions is under scrutiny as well (Drury, 2017).  I explored this question using simulations.  First, I created a Lotka-Volterra system-based trait-mediated interaction models to explore how competition and plant-pollinator mutualisms within networks of interacting species might affect trait evolution. The final model incorporated the effect of the OU+BM process, while trait values indicated strength of competitive or mutualistic (based on Nuismer and Harmon, 2015).  The evolutionary outcome was then derived from Lotka-Volterra population dynamics which determine fitness of specific phenotypes in a populations and change in those phenotypes from generation to generation. Mutualistic interactions in bipartite networks are additionally simulated by linking dynamics of two interacting clades.  Second, I analyzed data on Anolis lizards on Carribean Islands to determine if interactions could be used to understand trait distributions at the tips of a phylogeny in which the groups of interacting species can be clearly identified through times.  Use of Approximate Bayesian Computational methods to find the likelihood of trait distributions of the extant species will allow to use more elaborate mechanistic models for trait evolution while shedding some light on how to treat different parameters after the initial phase of analyses. 
